# Software Support and Maintenance Agreement
This Software Support and Maintenance Agreement (the “Agreement”) sets forth the terms and conditions under which James Middleton (the “Developer”) is willing to provide support and maintenance to licensees of certain products (“Customers”). Customer hereby agrees that the following terms and conditions shall solely govern the support and maintenance services provided by Developer. By payment or usage of the Softwares, Customer hereby agrees to the following terms and conditions:

## 1. Definitions
The terms used in this Agreement are defined below.

1.1 **“Bespoke Software”** means those Software products which have been coordinated with and are created solely for a single Customer, including extensions of COTS products.

1.2 **“Bug”** means programming errors in the Software that prevent the Software from substantially conforming to its specification.

1.3 **“Commercial Off-the-Shelf Software” or “COTS”** means Software products made for a specific and generic purpose for sale to numerous Customers.

1.4 **“Complementary”** means a service that is provided for free for the limited duration specified. After the Complementary service period, Customer will pay Developer for all work performed at Developer’s then-current standard time and materials charges.

1.5 **“Patches”** means additional programming code to be integrated with the Software to correct a Bug or alleviate its effects.

1.6 **“Quote”** means the Developer sales quote detailing Developer’s offer to license products and/or provide support and maintenance to Customer.

1.7 **“Software License”** means possessing the right to use the specific Software product for which the Software License was purchased.

1.8 **“Source Code”** means computer programming code in human readable form that is not suitable for machine execution without the intervening steps of interpretation or compilation.

1.9 **“Workaround(s)”** means a series of instructions, procedural steps or usage clarifications to avoid a Bug or circumvent its effects. A Workaround does not involve issuance of new programming code.

## 2. Developer Support and Maintenance
Subject to payment of the Developer’s then-current standard time and materials charges and the terms of this Agreement, Developer shall provide one or more of the following support and maintenance services:

2.1 **Live Support for Select Issues.** Customer Contact(s) will have access to live telephone or e-mail support for resolution of certain non-technical support requests. Requests that qualify for live support hereunder will be determined by Developer at their sole discretion.

2.2 **Updates and Patches for COTS Software** Applies only to COTS Software products. Developer will occasionally release Updates and Patches for COTS Software products, with or without prior notice. Developer will add Updates and Patches to the Software product automatically when possible, otherwise Customer will be prompted to add Updates and Patches upon next usage of the Software product.

2.3 **Patches for Bespoke Software.** Applies only to Bespoke Software products. Developer will use reasonable commercial efforts to remedy Bugs in Bespoke Software reported by Customer. Such remedy may consist of corrected portion(s) of the Software, Patches, or communication to Customer of a Workaround that gives Customer the ability to achieve substantially the same functionality as would be obtained without the Bug, as determined by Developer. Developer will schedule to add the Patches to the Software product between 0200 and 0400, unless agreed otherwise. Complementary Patches for Bespoke Software purchases from Developer commence upon the date of the applicable invoice and continue for two (2) months.

2.4 **Updates for Bespoke Software.** Applies only to Bespoke Software products. Developer will liaise with Customer to detail and ultimately implement Updates for the Customer’s Bespoke Software product. Developer is not obliged to perform such updates and is determined at Developer’s sole discretion.

## 3. Limitations on Services
The following limitations and restrictions shall apply to all support maintenance services provided under this Agreement:

3.1 **Business Hours, Language.** Developer shall provide support services to Customer only during the normal business hours of between 0900 and 1700, Monday to Friday, excluding United Kingdom and Developer’s recognised holidays. All support and maintenance shall be conducted in the English language only.

3.2 **Maintenance on Current Versions Only.** Applies only to Developer COTS Software products. Developer Updates and Patches are only effective on the latest version of the Software. For clarity, the latest version of the Software is a version of the Software that has been updated with all the most current Updates and Patches released for such version of the Software. If Customer has not incorporated all available Updates and Patches to the Software, any subsequently released Patches or Updates may not be effective or usable on such Software.

3.3 **No End User Support and Maintenance.** Developer has no obligation to provide any support and/or maintenance services to Customers’ licensees, end-users, customers, or any other third party.

3.4 **General.** Developer shall have no obligation to investigate or correct problems (including Bugs) that cannot be reproduced by Developer based on information provided by Customer; or that cannot be remedied due either to the operational characteristics of the computer equipment on which the Software is used; or to modifications to the Software made by Customer or any third party. Developer will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide the services under this Agreement; however, Customer acknowledges that Developer cannot guarantee that every question, problem, issue or Bug reported by Customer can or will be resolved. Nothing in this Agreement shall expand or add to any warranty for the Software set forth in any other agreement with Developer governing the use of the Software. The terms of this Agreement, including without limitation, any obligation of Developer to provide support and maintenance hereunder, apply to Customers purchasing support and maintenance for Software licensed directly from Developer. Except as otherwise agreed to in writing, this Agreement shall not apply to, or obligate Developer to provide, any support and maintenance services for Developer products that a customer obtains from or through any source other than Developer, including, but not limited to, a distributor.

## 4. Customer Responsibilities
The following customer responsibilities and obligations shall apply to all support and maintenance services provided under this Agreement and shall be a precondition for Developer to provide any of these services to Customer hereunder.

4.1 **Notice and Assistance.** Customers shall notify Developer of problems using the contact details on Developer’s website and will provide all relevant information known to Customer, and as requested by Developer, as well as sufficient support and test time on Customer’s computer system to determine if a problem is attributable to an Error and, if applicable, to correct any Errors and determine if an Error has been corrected. Such problem notice must contain sufficient information on computer-readable media, if practicable, for Developer to reproduce the problem. Thereafter, Customer will keep Developer notified of any additions or changes to such information, including any modifications to any Software being utilised (regardless of whether the modification is made by Customer, a third party or Developer), and will provide Developer with the source code for the modified Software. Customer shall promptly respond to Developer requests for additional information or assistance.

4.2 **Updates.** Applies only to COTS Software products. Pursuant to Section 3.2, if Customer is entitled to receive Updates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Customer shall incorporate the Updates as soon as practicable and acknowledges that failure to incorporate any such Update may make subsequent Updates and Patches unusable.

4.3 **Contact.** Customer must designate one named contact person (“Customer Contact”) for each Software product licensed from Developer. Only Customer Contacts shall be authorised to contact support, pursuant to Section 4.1 above, and receive Updates, Patches, Workarounds, correspondence and other communications, as applicable, concerning the Software. Customer will notify Developer, in writing, of any change in the Customer Contact.

4.4 **License and Use Restrictions** Subject to Section 7, Customer acknowledges that the Updates, Patches and any other software, as applicable, provided to Customer pursuant to this Agreement and any additional terms, and Customer agrees to abide by those terms and conditions. In addition, in the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any GPL License, the terms of the GPL License shall control for software governed by a GPL License and nothing in this Agreement imposes or purports to impose any restriction on copying, modifying or distributing any portion of the software licensed under a GPL License. For purposes of this Agreement, a “GPL License” means any version of the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, and other substantially similar open source licenses that preclude the imposition of further restrictions on copying, modifying or redistributing materials subject to their terms.

## 5. Termination
Either party may terminate this Agreement, if the other party materially breaches its obligations hereunder and fails to cure such breach within thirty (30) days of the non-breaching party’s written notice thereof (except for breaches of Section 7 or Section 8, for which there is no cure period). Developer may terminate this Agreement upon the occurrence of any event which would permit Developer to terminate any other agreement between Developer and Customer. In the event of termination or expiration of this Agreement, all fees or charges then due and payable, or to become due and payable in the future based upon services already rendered, shall be immediately due and payable to Developer and Customer’s obligations to pay such amounts shall survive the termination of this Agreement or any addenda hereto. The following sections shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement or any addenda hereto: Sections 4.4, 5, 6-11.

## 6. Fees and Payment
Customer shall pay to Developer the applicable support and maintenance fees for the Software. Support and maintenance fees shall be payable in accordance with the applicable Quote, within thirty (30) days after the date of the applicable invoice, and shall accrue commencing upon the date the Software was licensed by Customer. Payment terms herein are subject to prior credit approval by Developer. Developer may charge interest in the amount of five percent (5%) per month, or the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, whichever is less, from the due date until paid for all fees not paid when due. Upon notice to Customer prior to the commencement of any support and maintenance services, Developer shall have the right to change the fees that will apply for such work. All fees are exclusive of taxes, and Customer shall pay all sales, use, services or other similar taxes, if any, applicable to the fees.

## 7. Proprietary Rights and Use of Source Code
All software delivered under this Agreement (including Updates and Patches, as applicable) and any modifications thereto shall be owned by Developer. At Developer’s sole discretion, certain Updates and Patches, as applicable, may be provided to Customer in Source Code. Unless specified otherwise, Developer hereby grants Customer a restricted, personal, non-transferable, non-exclusive, internal-use license to use and modify the Source Code provided in an Update or Patch, as applicable, solely to the extent necessary to remedy any Error and to incorporate the Update or Patch, as applicable, into the Software as specified by Developer. Customer acknowledges and agrees that: (i) if Customer has obtained the right to distribute the Software, or any portions thereof, Customer shall compile the Source Code Updates, or Patches, as applicable, provided by Developer hereunder into Object Code prior to any such distribution and shall distribute and use such Updates or Patches, as applicable, in Object Code only; and (ii) that such Source Code is Confidential Information as described in Section 8. Customer acknowledges that Developer has no obligation to provide, and Customer has no right to receive, the Source Code for the Software or any Update or Patch, as applicable.

## 8. Confidential Information
In the event either party obtains access to the Confidential Information (defined below) of the other party in the course of performing this Agreement, the party obtaining such information shall maintain the confidentiality of such information in the same manner it maintains the confidentiality of its own similar Confidential Information, but in no event with less than reasonable care. “Confidential Information” of either party means any information disclosed on written or magnetic media during the Support Term that is marked “confidential” or with a similar legend at the time of disclosure to the receiving party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Updates, Patches, Workarounds and any software that may be provided by Developer pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed Confidential Information without regard to whether such items are marked “confidential” or with a similar legend. Confidential information shall not include any information that is (a) published or otherwise available to the public other than by breach of this Agreement; (b) rightfully received by the receiving party from a third party without confidentiality limitations; (c) independently developed by the receiving party without reference to the Confidential Information; (d) known to the receiving party prior to its first receipt of such information from the disclosing party; or (e) hereinafter disclosed by the disclosing party to a third party without restriction on disclosure. If any Confidential Information must be disclosed to any third party by reason of legal, accounting or regulatory requirements beyond the reasonable control of the receiving party, the receiving party shall promptly notify the disclosing party of the order or request and permit the disclosing party (at its own expense) to seek an appropriate protective order. This Agreement shall not be construed to prohibit, and Developer shall be entitled to use for any purpose, including without limitation use in development, manufacture, promotion, sale, support and maintenance of Developer’s or its customers’ products and services any information received from Customer in association with the support services described in this Agreement that may be retained as know-how, ideas, processes or expertise in the unaided memories of Developer’s personnel.

## 9. Disclaimer
DEVELOPER AND ITS LICENSORS PROVIDE NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS RELATED TO THE UPDATES, PATCHES, WORKAROUNDS OR ANY SOFTWARE, SERVICES, MAINTENANCE SERVICES OR SUPPORT THAT MAY BE PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

## 10. Limitation of Liability
DEVELOPER AND ITS LICENSORS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO CUSTOMER OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE OR GOODWILL, COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OR INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, OR LOSS OF DATA, OR ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT PRODUCT LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY EVEN IF DEVELOPER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT WILL DEVELOPER’S AGGREGATE CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE FEES PAID TO DEVELOPER BY CUSTOMER HEREUNDER FOR THE PAST YEAR QUARTER.

## 11. General
This Agreement will be governed in all respects by the laws of the United Kingdom without regard to conflict of principles of laws. All disputes arising under this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the United Kingdom as permitted by law. If any provision or provisions of this Agreement are determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. This Agreement may not be assigned, sub-licensed, or otherwise transferred by Customer without Developer’s prior written consent and any assignment or attempted assignment by Customer in violation of this Section 12 shall be null and void. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as creating any agency, employment relationship, partnership, principal-agent or other form of joint enterprise between the parties. This Agreement constitutes the complete, final and exclusive statement of the agreement between Developer and Customer, which supersedes all proposals, oral or written, and all other communications between the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. No waiver, alteration or modification of the provisions of this Agreement will be valid unless made in writing and signed by Developer. Each party agrees that use of pre- printed forms, such as purchase orders or acknowledgements, is for convenience only and all terms and conditions stated thereon are void and of no effect.